readme.md, before:

# regl-scatter2d [![experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/stability-unstable-green.svg)](http://github.com/badges/stability-badges)

Scatter plot for lots of points.

![regl-scatter2d](https://github.com/dfcreative/regl-scatter2d/blob/master/preview.png?raw=true)

Remake on [gl-scatter2d](https://github.com/gl-vis/gl-scatter2d), covering other scatter-related components.

[Demo](https://dfcreative.github.io/regl-scatter2d).


## Usage

[![npm install regl-scatter2d](https://nodei.co/npm/regl-scatter2d.png?mini=true)](https://npmjs.org/package/regl-scatter2d/)

```js
let drawPoints = require('regl-scatter2d')({
  regl: require('regl')(),
  positions: data,
  color: 'rgba(0, 100, 200, .75)'
})

drawPoints()
```

## API

### `drawScatter = require('regl-scatter2d')(options|points|regl)`

Create function drawing points, based on options or a shortcut.

Option | Default | Description
---|---|---
`regl` | `null` | Regl instance to reuse, otherwise new regl is created.
`gl`, `canvas`, `container` | `null` | Options for `regl`, if new regl is created.
`...rest` | | `drawScatter(rest)` is invoked with the rest of options.

### `drawScatter(points|options?)`

Redraw points and optionally update options.

Option | Default | Description
---|---|---
`positions`, `points` | `[]` | An array of the unrolled xy coordinates of the points as `[x,y, x,y, ...]` or array of points `[[x,y], [x,y], ...]`.
`size` | `12` | Number or array with marker sizes in pixels. Array length should correspond to `positions`.
`borderSize` | `1` | Number or array with border sizes in pixels. Array length should correspond to `positions`.
`color`, `colors` | `'red'` | Color or array with colors. Each color can be a css color string or an array with float `0..1` values. If `palette` is defined, `color` can be a number with index of a color in the palette.
`borderColor`, `borderColors` | `'black'` | Border color or array with border colors. If `palette` is defined, `borderColor` can be a number with index of a color in the palette.
`palette` | `null` | List of colors, eg. `['red', 'green', 'blue', 'black', ...]`.
`marker`, `markers` | `null` | Marker sdf image, should be a rectangular array with `0..1` 1-channel values of signed distance field. Use [bitmap-sdf](https://github.com/dfcreative/bitmap-sdf) to generate sdf from any image. `.5` value of distance corresponds to the border line. If `null`, circular marker is used.
`range`, `bounds` | `null` | Data bounds limiting visible data as `[left, top, right, bottom]`. If `null`, the range is detected as `positions` boundaries.
`viewport` | `null` | View bounds limiting area within the canvas
`precision` | `'low'` | Positions precision, `'high'` or `'low'`. Tradeoff between max number of points and rendering performance.
`snap` | `1e5` | Number of points to enable snapping, can be bool.
`ids` | `null` | List of point ids to draw, corresponding to `points`. If undefined, all available points will be drawn.
`draw` | `true` | Redraw points. If `false`, options will be updated but no points drawn. If `'pick'`, the numeric indices will be drawn instead of colors.

## Related

* [pts](https://github.com/williamngan/pts)

## License

(c) 2017 Dima Yv. MIT License

Development supported by plot.ly.

Commit message:

Enable subset of points updating

readme.md, after:

# regl-scatter2d [![experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/stability-unstable-green.svg)](http://github.com/badges/stability-badges)

Scatter plot for lots of points.

![regl-scatter2d](https://github.com/dfcreative/regl-scatter2d/blob/master/preview.png?raw=true)

Remake on [gl-scatter2d](https://github.com/gl-vis/gl-scatter2d), covering other scatter-related components.

[Demo](https://dfcreative.github.io/regl-scatter2d).


## Usage

[![npm install regl-scatter2d](https://nodei.co/npm/regl-scatter2d.png?mini=true)](https://npmjs.org/package/regl-scatter2d/)

```js
let drawPoints = require('regl-scatter2d')({
  regl: require('regl')(),
  positions: data,
  color: 'rgba(0, 100, 200, .75)'
})

drawPoints()
```

## API

### `drawScatter = require('regl-scatter2d')(options|points|regl)`

Create function drawing points, based on options or a shortcut.

Option | Default | Description
---|---|---
`regl` | `null` | Regl instance to reuse, otherwise new regl is created.
`gl`, `canvas`, `container` | `null` | Options for `regl`, if new regl is created.
`...rest` | | `drawScatter(rest)` is invoked with the rest of options.

### `drawScatter(points|options?)`

Redraw points and optionally update options.

Option | Default | Description
---|---|---
`positions`, `points` | `[]` | An array of the unrolled xy coordinates of the points as `[x,y, x,y, ...]` or array of points `[[x,y], [x,y], ...]`.
`size`, `sizes` | `12` | Number or array with marker sizes in pixels. Array length should correspond to `positions`.
`borderSize`, `borderSizes` | `1` | Number or array with border sizes in pixels. Array length should correspond to `positions`.
`color`, `colors` | `'black'` | Color or array with colors. Each color can be a css color string or an array with float `0..1` values. If `palette` is defined, `color` can be a number with index of a color in the palette.
`borderColor`, `borderColors` | `'transparent'` | Border color or array with border colors. If `palette` is defined, `borderColor` can be a number with index of a color in the palette.
`palette` | `null` | List of colors, eg. `['red', 'green', 'blue', 'black', ...]`.
`marker`, `markers` | `null` | Marker sdf image, should be a rectangular array with `0..1` 1-channel values of signed distance field. Use [bitmap-sdf](https://github.com/dfcreative/bitmap-sdf) or [svg-path-sdf](https://github.com/dfcreative/svg-path-sdf) to generate sdf from an image or svg. `.5` value of distance corresponds to the border line. If `null`, circular marker is used.
`range`, `bounds` | `null` | Data bounds limiting visible data as `[left, top, right, bottom]`. If `null`, the range is detected as `positions` boundaries.
`viewport` | `null` | Bounding box limiting visible area within the canvas in pixels, should be an array `[left, top, right, bottom]`.
`hiprecision` | `false` | Positions precision. Higher precision lowers max number of points and rendering performance, but enables 64-bit floats.
`snap` | `1e5` | Number of points threshold to enable snapping, can be bool.
`ids`, `elements` | `null` | Subset of `points` to draw, should be an array of point ids. If `undefined`, all available points are drawn.
`draw` | `true` | Redraw points. If `false`, options will be updated but no points drawn. If `'pick'`, the numeric indices will be drawn instead of colors.

## Related

* [pts](https://github.com/williamngan/pts)

## License

(c) 2017 Dima Yv. MIT License

Development supported by plot.ly.
